Add storage precompile (#1408)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: smart-contracts/precompiles/storage.md

---
title: Interact with the Storage Precompile

> description: Learn how to use the Storage precompile for low-level storage operations, including reading, writing, and managing contract storage data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to use the Storage precompile for low-level contract storage access, including reads, writes, partial reads, key inspection, and storage management.
```

wdyt ? The other one was too short.

categories: Smart Contracts
---

# Storage Precompile

## Introduction

> The Storage precompile provides low-level access to contract storage operations at the runtime level. Located at the fixed address `0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000901`, it offers a comprehensive set of utilities including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Storage precompile provides low-level access to contract storage operations at the runtime level. Located at the fixed address `0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000901`, it offers a comprehensive set of utilities, including:
```

> - **Direct storage access**: Read and write raw storage keys and values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Direct storage access**: Read and write raw storage keys and values.
```

> - **Partial reads**: Retrieve specific segments of large values to optimize gas costs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Partial reads**: Retrieve specific segments of large values to optimize gas costs.
```

> - **Storage inspection**: Check for key existence and value sizes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Storage inspection**: Check for key existence and value sizes.
```

- **Storage management**: Efficiently remove and manage storage entries

This precompile is particularly useful for contracts that need fine-grained control over storage layout, want to optimize gas costs for large data structures, or need to implement custom storage patterns.

## Precompile Interface

The Storage precompile implements the `IStorage` interface, which is defined in the Polkadot SDK. The source code for the interface is as follows:

```solidity title="IStorage.sol"
--8<-- "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/62fa27df30d985600963fd5bcec1080e4c63fd4b/substrate/frame/revive/uapi/sol/IStorage.sol"
```

For the complete implementation, refer to the [IStorage.sol](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/blob/62fa27df30d985600963fd5bcec1080e4c63fd4b/substrate/frame/revive/uapi/sol/IStorage.sol){target=\_blank} file in the Polkadot SDK.

## Reading Storage

### Read Full Value

Retrieves the complete value stored at a given storage key. This is the most straightforward way to access storage data.

```solidity
function get(bytes32 key) external view returns (bytes memory);
```

**Parameters:**

- **`key`**: The storage key to read from

**Returns:**

> - **`bytes memory`**: The complete value stored at the key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`bytes memory`**: The complete value stored at the key.
```

**Example usage:**

```solidity
IStorage storage = IStorage(STORAGE_ADDR);
bytes32 key = keccak256("myStorageKey");
bytes memory value = storage.get(key);
```

!!!note
    This function will revert if the key does not exist in storage. Use `has_key` to check existence first if needed.

### Read Partial Value

Reads a specific segment of a stored value, defined by an offset and length. This is useful for handling large values efficiently without loading the entire data into memory.

```solidity
function get_range(bytes32 key, uint32 offset, uint32 length) external view returns (bytes memory);
```

**Parameters:**

- **`key`**: The storage key to read from
- **`offset`**: Starting byte position within the stored value
- **`length`**: Number of bytes to read

**Returns:**

> - **`bytes memory`**: The requested segment of the stored value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`bytes memory`**: The requested segment of the stored value.
```

**Example usage:**

```solidity
IStorage storage = IStorage(STORAGE_ADDR);
bytes32 key = keccak256("largeData");

// Read bytes 100-200 of a large stored value
bytes memory segment = storage.get_range(key, 100, 100);
```

!!!warning
    This function will revert if the offset + length exceeds the actual stored value's length.

### Read Value Prefix

Retrieves up to a specified number of bytes from the beginning of a stored value. If the stored value is shorter than the requested length, only the available bytes are returned.

```solidity
function get_prefix(bytes32 key, uint32 max_length) external view returns (bytes memory);
```

**Parameters:**

> - **`key`**: The storage key to read from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`key`**: The storage key to read from.
```

> - **`max_length`**: Maximum number of bytes to read from the start

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`max_length`**: Maximum number of bytes to read from the start.
```

**Returns:**

> - **`bytes memory`**: The prefix of the stored value (up to `max_length` bytes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`bytes memory`**: The prefix of the stored value (up to `max_length` bytes).
```

**Example usage:**

```solidity
IStorage storage = IStorage(STORAGE_ADDR);
bytes32 key = keccak256("userData");

// Read first 32 bytes (might be a header or metadata)
bytes memory header = storage.get_prefix(key, 32);
```

## Writing Storage

### Write Value

Writes or overwrites a value at a specified storage key. This operation completely replaces any existing value at the key.

```solidity
function set(bytes32 key, bytes memory value) external;
```

**Parameters:**

> - **`key`**: The storage key to write to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`key`**: The storage key to write to.
```

> - **`value`**: The data to store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`value`**: The data to store.
```

**Example usage:**

```solidity
IStorage storage = IStorage(STORAGE_ADDR);
bytes32 key = keccak256("myData");
bytes memory data = abi.encode("Hello Polkadot!");

storage.set(key, data);
```

!!!note

>     Large storage writes can be expensive in terms of gas. Consider breaking large data into smaller chunks if possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Large storage writes can be expensive in terms of gas. Breaking large data into smaller chunks is recommended.
```

### Remove Value

Deletes the value stored at a specified key, freeing up storage space and potentially refunding gas.

```solidity
function remove(bytes32 key) external;
```

**Parameters:**

- **`key`**: The storage key to delete

**Example usage:**

```solidity
IStorage storage = IStorage(STORAGE_ADDR);
bytes32 key = keccak256("obsoleteData");

storage.remove(key);
```

## Storage Inspection

### Check Key Existence

Checks whether a given storage key exists, even if the stored value is empty.

```solidity
function has_key(bytes32 key) external view returns (bool);
```

**Parameters:**

> - **`key`**: The storage key to check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`key`**: The storage key to check.
```

**Returns:**

> - **`bool`**: `true` if the key exists, `false` otherwise

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`bool`**: `true` if the key exists, `false` otherwise.
```

}
```

### Get Value Length

Returns the byte length of the value stored at a key without reading the actual data. This is useful for determining how much data exists before reading it.

```solidity
function length(bytes32 key) external view returns (uint32);
```

**Parameters:**

- **`key`**: The storage key to query

**Returns:**

- **`uint32`**: The length in bytes of the stored value

**Example usage:**

```solidity
IStorage storage = IStorage(STORAGE_ADDR);
bytes32 key = keccak256("largeFile");

uint32 size = storage.length(key);
if (size > 10000) {
    // Handle large value with partial reads
    bytes memory chunk = storage.get_range(key, 0, 1000);
} else {
    // Small enough to read in full
    bytes memory value = storage.get(key);
}
```

!!!note
    This function will revert if the key does not exist.

## Interact with the Storage Precompile

To interact with the Storage precompile in [Remix IDE](/smart-contracts/dev-environments/remix/){target=\_blank}:

1. Create a new file called `IStorage.sol` in Remix
2. Copy and paste the `IStorage` interface code into the file

    ![](/images/smart-contracts/precompiles/storage/storage-precompile-01.webp)

> 3. Compile the interface by selecting the compile button or using **Ctrl + S**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Compile the interface by selecting the compile button or using **Ctrl + S**.
```

> 4. In the **Deploy & Run Transactions** tab, select the `IStorage` interface from the contract dropdown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the **Deploy & Run Transactions** tab, select the `IStorage` interface from the contract dropdown.
```

5. Enter the precompile address `0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000901` in the **At Address** input field
6. Select the **At Address** button to connect to the precompile

    ![](/images/smart-contracts/precompiles/storage/storage-precompile-02.webp)

> Once connected, you can interact with any of the Storage precompile functions directly through the Remix interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once connected, you can interact with any Storage precompile function directly through the Remix interface.
```
